README.md, before:


# BI Challenge

The



# BI Code Challenge

This is the repo for my solution to the sode challenge for the Business Intelligence Analyst position at door2door.

## Installation
Follow this instructions if you use conda.
- Clone the repository on your local machine
```
https://github.com/jlcoto/door2door_bi.git
```
- Create the environment by running
```
conda env create -f bi_chall_coto.yml
```
- Activate the environment
```
source activate bi_chall_coto
```
-Run a Jupyter Notebook on shell
```
jupyter notebook
```

If using pip

- Activate a virtual environment

-Run
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Task

One of the main KPI of door2door's [allygator shuttle](https://www.allygatorshuttle.com/en/index.html) performance is the relationship between estimated time of arrival (ETA) versus actual time of arrival (ATA). Using [the data provided](https://github.com/door2door-io/bi-code-challenge/tree/bi-analyst/data) develop the following:
- The indicator that would give the best measurement of this relationship (measurement, what it says, how often it needs to be looked at etc.).
- Indicate which parts of the company are interested in this indicator and what info can they infer from it.
- Show what conclusions, remarks and patterns you could infer from the provided data.
- Create a presentation that communicates your approach and findings to non-technical stakeholders within the company.

The language of choice for data analysis at door2door is Python, though we don't mandate the tools for the solution. Choose the tools and language that you think are best to accomplish the task. It's important though that the presented analyses can be reliably reproduced, and that you're able to convey the results of your analysis. You can always choose more than one way to present those insights.

Whenever questions arise during the task please don't hesitate to ask us.

## Data Description

Two data sources are provided, the bookings from a event stream as a json file and the tasks from a database as a csv file.

## Developing your solution:

1. Please clone the repository to your local machine via:

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/door2door-io/bi-code-challenge.git
    ```

    or download a zip archive of this repository [here](https://github.com/door2door-io/bi-code-challenge/archive/master.zip).

2. Fulfill the given task.

3. Submit your solution:

    Please submit your solution in the form of a publicly accessible git repository. Please make sure to submit the full git commit history with the project and please include instructions for running your code where necessary.

    Alternatively, you can submit a zip archive of your project via email.

## Reviewing

It is matters to us to learn how you interact with the data and how you explain it to other people in the company. It is more important to have understandable code and presentation than a complex algorithm. The same counts for the presentation, it is important that your points are conveyed clearly to the target audience (substance over style).

The criteria we are looking for are the following:

- **Presentation**: Are the conclusion clearly described? What discussion points are raised?
- **Documentation**: Is the project and the code properly documented?
- **Correctness**: Is the task solved? If there is anything missing, is the reason why documented?
- **Code**: What technologies were used, and do they fit the tasks? Is the code understandable and maintainable?

Commit message:

Add presentation link to README.

README.md, after:


# BI Code Challenge

This is the repo for my solution to the sode challenge for the Business Intelligence Analyst position at door2door. You can check the accompanying presentation in the following [link](https://rawgit.com/jlcoto/door2door_bi_presentation/master/index.html).

## Installation
Follow this instructions if you use conda.
- Clone the repository on your local machine
```
https://github.com/jlcoto/door2door_bi.git
```
- Create the environment by running
```
conda env create -f bi_chall_coto.yml
```
- Activate the environment
```
source activate bi_chall_coto
```
-Run a Jupyter Notebook on shell
```
jupyter notebook
```

If using pip

- Activate a virtual environment

-Run
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Presentation

Please see the presentation in the following [link](https://rawgit.com/jlcoto/door2door_bi_presentation/master/index.html).

## Task

One of the main KPI of door2door's [allygator shuttle](https://www.allygatorshuttle.com/en/index.html) performance is the relationship between estimated time of arrival (ETA) versus actual time of arrival (ATA). Using [the data provided](https://github.com/door2door-io/bi-code-challenge/tree/bi-analyst/data) develop the following:
- The indicator that would give the best measurement of this relationship (measurement, what it says, how often it needs to be looked at etc.).
- Indicate which parts of the company are interested in this indicator and what info can they infer from it.
- Show what conclusions, remarks and patterns you could infer from the provided data.
- Create a presentation that communicates your approach and findings to non-technical stakeholders within the company.

The language of choice for data analysis at door2door is Python, though we don't mandate the tools for the solution. Choose the tools and language that you think are best to accomplish the task. It's important though that the presented analyses can be reliably reproduced, and that you're able to convey the results of your analysis. You can always choose more than one way to present those insights.

Whenever questions arise during the task please don't hesitate to ask us.

## Data Description

Two data sources are provided, the bookings from a event stream as a json file and the tasks from a database as a csv file.

## Developing your solution:

1. Please clone the repository to your local machine via:

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/door2door-io/bi-code-challenge.git
    ```

    or download a zip archive of this repository [here](https://github.com/door2door-io/bi-code-challenge/archive/master.zip).

2. Fulfill the given task.

3. Submit your solution:

    Please submit your solution in the form of a publicly accessible git repository. Please make sure to submit the full git commit history with the project and please include instructions for running your code where necessary.

    Alternatively, you can submit a zip archive of your project via email.

## Reviewing

It is matters to us to learn how you interact with the data and how you explain it to other people in the company. It is more important to have understandable code and presentation than a complex algorithm. The same counts for the presentation, it is important that your points are conveyed clearly to the target audience (substance over style).

The criteria we are looking for are the following:

- **Presentation**: Are the conclusion clearly described? What discussion points are raised?
- **Documentation**: Is the project and the code properly documented?
- **Correctness**: Is the task solved? If there is anything missing, is the reason why documented?
- **Code**: What technologies were used, and do they fit the tasks? Is the code understandable and maintainable?
